chore: add Electron 36 blog post (#801)
electron/website: blog/electron-36-0.md

---
title: Electron 36.0.0
date: 2025-04-28T00:00:00.000Z
authors:
  - georgexu99
slug: electron-36-0
tags: [release]
---

Electron 36.0.0 has been released! It includes upgrades to Chromium 136, V8 13.6, and Node 22.14.0.

---

> The Electron team is excited to announce the release of Electron 36.0.0! You can install it with npm via `npm install electron@latest` or download it from our [releases website](https://releases.electronjs.org/releases/stable). Continue reading for details about this release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Electron team is excited to announce the release of Electron 36.0.0! You can install it with npm via `npm install electron@latest` or download it from our [releases website](https://releases.electronjs.org/release?channel=stable). Continue reading for details about this release.
```

Looks like the URL has changed (although the old one redirects properly).

> If you have any feedback, please share it with us on [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/electronjs.org) or [Mastodon](https://social.lfx.dev/@electronjs), or join our community [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/electronjs)! Bugs and feature requests can be reported in Electron's [issue tracker](https://github.com/electron/electron/issues).

Reviewer: Just to make sure: Is anyone actually tracking feedback through Bluesky, Mastodon, or Discord? I've never really heard anyone talk about them much.

Reviewer 2: @nikwen I think it's up to individual maintainer efforts but I usually look at our Bluesky notifications at least once a week!

Reviewer: Okay, great! Thanks for the quick reply. I just wanted to make sure we don't mention a channel that doesn't get looked at.

## Notable Changes

> ### Native macOS Context Menu Support

Reviewer 2: I think the headline downplays how cool of a feature this is.

```suggestion
### Supercharged macOS Context Menus
```

Should we add a Writing Tools gif as well, or is that a bit trite?

Reviewer: I think a gif would be great!

We could even change the heading to "Writing Tools support". I think that communicates the feature better. Who cares about random context menu changes?

> In Electron 36, you can enable macOS system-level features like Writing Tools (spelling and grammar), Autofill, and Services menu items in your context menus. Simply pass a `frame` in the `options` object that you pass to `menu.popup`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Electron 36, you can enable macOS system-level features like Writing Tools (spelling and grammar), Autofill, and Services menu items in your context menus. To do so, pass a [WebFrameMain](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/web-frame-main#class-webframemain) instance into the `frame` parameter for `menu.popup()`.
```

> Electron 36 enhances the `menu.popup` API by extending the `options` object to include `frame`. This feature enables integration with macOS system-level features like Writing Tools (spelling and grammar), Autofill, and Services menu items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Electron 36, you can enable macOS system-level features like Writing Tools (spelling and grammar), Autofill, and Services menu items in your context menus. Simply pass a `frame` in the `options` object that you pass to `menu.popup`.
```

Let's start with the benefit, then explain how it's done technically.

> ```ts

Reviewer 2: I think we usually add CommonJS JavaScript code in our blog post snippets (and throughout our docs). Is there a specific reason we switched to TS here?

import { BrowserWindow, Menu, WebFrameMain } from 'electron';

> const currentWindow: Electron.BrowserWindow = BrowserWindow.getFocusedWindow();

Reviewer 2: There's still a type annotation here despite it being JS otherwise
```suggestion
const currentWindow = BrowserWindow.getFocusedWindow();
```

const focusedFrame = currentWindow.webContents.focusedFrame;
const menu = Menu.buildFromTemplate([{ label: 'Copy', role: 'copy' }]);

menu.popup({
  window: currentWindow,
  frame: focusedFrame,
});
```

### Stack Changes

- Chromium `136.0.7103.48`
  - [New in 136](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-in-chrome-136/)
  - [New in 135](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-in-chrome-135/)
- Node `22.14.0`
  - [Node 22.14.0 blog post](https://nodejs.org/en/blog/release/v22.14.0/)
- V8 `13.5`

> Electron 36 upgrades Chromium from `134.0.6998.23` to `136.0.7103.48`, and V8 from `13.5` to `13.6`.

Reviewer 2: Is it 13.5 or 13.6?

### New Features

> - Added `BrowserWindow.isSnapped()` to indicate whether a given window has been arranged via Snap. [#46226](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46226)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Added `BrowserWindow.isSnapped()` to indicate whether a given window has been arranged via Snap on Windows. [#46226](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46226)
```

- Added `WebContents.focusedFrame` to get the focused frame.

>   - Fixed `WebContents.opener` to specify potential `null` type. [#45667](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45667)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed `WebContents.opener` to specify potential `null` type. [#45667](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45667)
```

> - Added `ffmpeg.dll` to delay load configuration. [#46173](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46173) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [34](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46174), [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46172))</span>

Reviewer 2: This is more of a performance improvement than an actual feature.

> - Added `ffmpeg.dll` to delay load configuration. [#46173](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46173) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [34](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46174), [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46172))</span>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Added `ffmpeg.dll` to delay load configuration. [#46173](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46173) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [34](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46174), [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46172))</span>
```

The build is failing because we need to use the `style={{}}` prop in the way that JSX expects it.

- Added support for Autofill, Writing Tools and Services macOS level menu items in context menus via the new `frame` option in `menu.popup`. [#46350](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46350)
- Added support for `system-context-menu` on Linux. [#46399](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46399)
- Improved ASAR integrity checks on Windows. [#46537](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46537)
- Improved performance of `desktopCapturer.getSources` when not requesting thumbnails on macOS. [#46251](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46251) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [34](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46250), [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46249))</span>
- Removed 240 FPS limit when use shared texture OSR. [#45669](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45669) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45781))</span>

### Breaking Changes

> ### Deprecated: NativeImage.getBitmap()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deprecated: `NativeImage.getBitmap()`
```

The `NativeImage.getBitmap()` function is now deprecated and documented as an alias for `NativeImage.toBitmap()`.
The two functions both return a newly-allocated copy of the bitmap and are functionally equivalent.

### Deprecated: Extension methods and events on `session`

`session.loadExtension`, `session.removeExtension`, `session.getExtension`,
`session.getAllExtensions`, `extension-loaded` event, `extension-unloaded`
event, and `extension-ready` events have all moved to the new

> `session.extensions` class.

Reviewer: Do we have a class that starts with a lower-case letter?

Author: based on `session.md` it seems like we referto the actual module as lower case, and an instance of the class as uppercase

Reviewer: So it looks like `session.extensions` is an instance property and `Extension` is the class. I'll open a follow-up PR.

When calling `Session.clearStorageData(options)`, the `options.quota`
property is deprecated. Since the `syncable` type was removed, there
is only type left -- `'temporary'` -- so specifying it is unnecessary.

### Behavior Changed: GTK 4 is the default when running on GNOME

After an [upstream change](https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/6310469), GTK 4 is now the default when running on GNOME.

In rare cases, this may cause some applications or configurations to [error](https://github.com/electron/electron/issues/46538) with the following message:

```stderr
Gtk-ERROR **: 11:30:38.382: GTK 2/3 symbols detected. Using GTK 2/3 and GTK 4 in the same process is not supported
```

Affected users can work around this by specifying the `gtk-version` command-line flag:

```shell
$ electron --gtk-version=3   # or --gtk-version=2
```

The same can be done with the [`app.commandLine.appendSwitch`](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/command-line#commandlineappendswitchswitch-value) function.

### Behavior Changed: `app.commandLine`

`app.commandLine` will convert uppercases switches and arguments to lowercase.

> `app.commandLine` was only meant to handle chromium switches (which aren't case-sensitive) and switches passed via `app.commandLine` will not be passed down to any of the child processes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`app.commandLine` was only meant to handle Chromium switches (which aren't case-sensitive) and switches passed via `app.commandLine` will not be passed down to any of the child processes.
```

> If you were using `app.commandLine` to control the behavior of the main process, you should do this via `process.argv`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you were using `app.commandLine` to parse app-specific command line arguments, you should do this via `process.argv`.
```

### Removed: `quota` type `syncable` in `Session.clearStorageData(options)`

When calling `Session.clearStorageData(options)`, the `options.quota` type
`syncable` is no longer supported because it has been
[removed](https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/6309405)

> from upstream Chromium.

Reviewer: We should mention this before the `quota` deprecation. The latter references the former.

---
title: Electron 36.0.0
date: 2025-04-28T00:00:00.000Z
authors:
  - georgexu99
slug: electron-36-0
tags: [release]
---

Electron 36.0.0 has been released! It includes upgrades to Chromium 136, V8 13.6, and Node 22.14.0.

---

The Electron team is excited to announce the release of Electron 36.0.0! You can install it with npm via `npm install electron@latest` or download it from our [releases website](https://releases.electronjs.org/releases/stable). Continue reading for details about this release.

If you have any feedback, please share it with us on [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/electronjs.org) or [Mastodon](https://social.lfx.dev/@electronjs), or join our community [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/electronjs)! Bugs and feature requests can be reported in Electron's [issue tracker](https://github.com/electron/electron/issues).

## Notable Changes

### Highlights

- Add support for MacOS Autofill, Writing Tools (e.g., spelling, grammar), and Services
  - Electron apps can now hook into AppKit's native context menus via the newly exposed `frame` option in `menu.popup`.

> - Added ServiceWorkerMain class to interact with service workers in the main process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added `ServiceWorkerMain` class to interact with service workers in the main process.
```

>   - Developers can now start serviceworkers with `startWorkerForScope()`, retrieve service worker instances with `fromVersionID()`, and listen for lifecycle events like `runnning-status-changed`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Developers can now start service workers with `startWorkerForScope()`, retrieve service worker instances with `fromVersionID()`, and listen for lifecycle events like `runnning-status-changed`.
```

- Node `22.14.0`
  - [Node 22.14.0 blog post](https://nodejs.org/en/blog/release/v22.14.0/)
- V8 `13.5`

Electron 36 upgrades Chromium from `134.0.6998.23` to `136.0.7103.48`, and V8 from `13.5` to `13.6`.

### New Features

- Added `BrowserWindow.isSnapped()` to indicate whether a given window has been arranged via Snap. [#46226](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46226)
- Added `ServiceWorkerMain` class to interact with service workers in the main process.
  - Added `fromVersionID` on `ServiceWorkers` to get an instance of `ServiceWorkerMain`.
  - Added `running-status-changed` event on `ServiceWorkers` to indicate when a service worker's running status has changed.
  - Added `startWorkerForScope` on `ServiceWorkers` to start a worker that may have been previously stopped. [#45232](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45232) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45341))</span>
- Added `WebContents.focusedFrame` to get the focused frame.
  - Fixed `WebContents.opener` to specify potential `null` type. [#45667](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45667)

> - Added `contextBridge.executeInMainWorld` to safely execute code across world boundaries. [#45229](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45229) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45330))</span>

Reviewer: We already mentioned this in the previous blog post. I believe we don't want to mention PRs that we've already covered in previous release blog posts.

There are more PRs like this. I haven't marked the remaining ones for now.

- Added `ffmpeg.dll` to delay load configuration. [#46173](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46173) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [34](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46174), [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46172))</span>
- Added `nativeTheme.shouldUseDarkColorsForSystemIntegratedUI` to distinguish system and app theme. [#46598](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46598) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46599))</span>
- Added `view.getVisible()`. [#44999](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/44999) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [34](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45410), [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45409))</span>
- Added `webContents.navigationHistory.restore(index, entries)` API that allows restoration of navigation history. [#45433](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45433) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [34](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45584), [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45583))</span>

> - Added excludeUrls to webRequest filter and deprecated the use of empty arrays in `urls` property. [#44692](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/44692) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45678))</span>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added `excludeUrls` to `webRequest` filter and deprecated the use of empty arrays in `urls` property. [#44692](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/44692) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45678))</span>
```

- Added support for `roundedCorners` BrowserWindow constructor option on Windows. [#45594](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45594) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [34](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45739), [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45740))</span>
- Added support for `system-context-menu` on Linux. [#46399](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46399)
- Added support for service worker preload scripts. [#44411](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/44411) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45408))</span>
- Redesigned preload script APIs by introducing `registerPreloadScript`, `unregisterPreloadScript`, `getPreloadScripts` on `Session`.
  - Deprecated `getPreloads` and `setPreloads` on `Session`. [#45230](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45230) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45329))</span>
- Removed 240 FPS limit when use shared texture OSR. [#45669](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45669) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45781))</span>

> - Support Portal's globalShortcuts. Electron must be run with --enable-features=GlobalShortcutsPortal in order to have the feature working. [#45171](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45171) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45297))</span>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Support Portal's `globalShortcuts`. Electron must be run with `--enable-features=GlobalShortcutsPortal` in order to have the feature working. [#45171](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45171) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/45297))</span>
```

- Improved ASAR integrity checks on Windows. [#46537](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46537)

> - Improved performance of desktopCapturer.getSources when not requesting thumbnails on macOS. [#46251](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46251) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [34](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46250), [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46249))</span>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improved performance of `desktopCapturer.getSources` when not requesting thumbnails on macOS. [#46251](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46251) <span style="font-size:small;">(Also in [34](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46250), [35](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/46249))</span>
```

### Breaking Changes

### Deprecated: NativeImage.getBitmap()

The `NativeImage.getBitmap()` function is now deprecated and documented as an alias for `NativeImage.toBitmap()`.
The two functions both return a newly-allocated copy of the bitmap and are functionally equivalent.

### Deprecated: Extension methods and events on `session`

`session.loadExtension`, `session.removeExtension`, `session.getExtension`,
`session.getAllExtensions`, `extension-loaded` event, `extension-unloaded`
event, and `extension-ready` events have all moved to the new
`session.extensions` class.

### Deprecated: `quota` property in `Session.clearStorageData(options)`

When calling `Session.clearStorageData(options)`, the `options.quota`
property is deprecated. Since the `syncable` type was removed, there
is only type left -- `'temporary'` -- so specifying it is unnecessary.

> ### Behavior Changed: GTK 4 is default when running GNOME

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Behavior Changed: GTK 4 is the default when running on GNOME
```

> After an [upstream change](https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/6310469), GTK 4 is now the default when running GNOME.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After an [upstream change](https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/6310469), GTK 4 is now the default when running on GNOME.
```

In rare cases, this may cause some applications or configurations to [error](https://github.com/electron/electron/issues/46538) with the following message:

```stderr
Gtk-ERROR **: 11:30:38.382: GTK 2/3 symbols detected. Using GTK 2/3 and GTK 4 in the same process is not supported
```

Affected users can work around this by specifying the `gtk-version` command-line flag:

```shell
$ electron --gtk-version=3   # or --gtk-version=2
```

The same can be done with the [`app.commandLine.appendSwitch`](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/command-line#commandlineappendswitchswitch-value) function.

### Behavior Changed: `app.commandLine`

> `app.commandLine` will convert upper-cases switches and arguments to lowercase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`app.commandLine` will convert uppercase switches and arguments to lowercase.
```

Let's be consistent between uppercase and lowercase.

`app.commandLine` was only meant to handle chromium switches (which aren't case-sensitive) and switches passed via `app.commandLine` will not be passed down to any of the child processes.

If you were using `app.commandLine` to control the behavior of the main process, you should do this via `process.argv`.

### Removed: `systemPreferences.isAeroGlassEnabled()`

The `systemPreferences.isAeroGlassEnabled()` function has been removed without replacement.
It has been always returning `true` since Electron 23, which only supports Windows 10+, where DWM composition can no longer be disabled.

> https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/dwm/composition-ovw#disabling-dwm-composition-windows7-and-earlier

Reviewer: This section was already part of the v35 blog post. I'd remove it from the v36 post.

### Removed:`isDefault` and `status` properties on `PrinterInfo`

> These properties have been removed from the PrinterInfo Object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These properties have been removed from the `PrinterInfo` object
```

> because they have been removed from upstream Chromium.

Reviewer: This section was already part of the v35 blog post. I'd remove it from the v36 post.

### Removed: `quota` type `syncable` in `Session.clearStorageData(options)`

When calling `Session.clearStorageData(options)`, the `options.quota` type
`syncable` is no longer supported because it has been
[removed](https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/6309405)
from upstream Chromium.

> ---

Reviewer: What is this spacer for?

Author: Ah good catch- I had copy pasted some breaking changes from the previous blog post and this missed the cleanup

### Removed: `isDefault` and `status` properties on `PrinterInfo`

These properties have been removed from the PrinterInfo Object

> because they have been removed from upstream Chromium.

Reviewer: This section is duplicated.

### Deprecated: `getFromVersionID` on `session.serviceWorkers`

The `session.serviceWorkers.fromVersionID(versionId)` API has been deprecated
in favor of `session.serviceWorkers.getInfoFromVersionID(versionId)`. This was
changed to make it more clear which object is returned with the introduction
of the `session.serviceWorkers.getWorkerFromVersionID(versionId)` API.

```js
// Deprecated
session.serviceWorkers.fromVersionID(versionId);

// Replace with
session.serviceWorkers.getInfoFromVersionID(versionId);

> ```

Reviewer: This section was already part of the v35 blog post. I'd remove it from the v36 post.

### Deprecated: `setPreloads`, `getPreloads` on `Session`

`registerPreloadScript`, `unregisterPreloadScript`, and `getPreloadScripts` are introduced as a
replacement for the deprecated methods. These new APIs allow third-party libraries to register
preload scripts without replacing existing scripts. Also, the new `type` option allows for
additional preload targets beyond `frame`.

```js
// Deprecated
session.setPreloads([path.join(__dirname, 'preload.js')]);

// Replace with:
session.registerPreloadScript({
  type: 'frame',
  id: 'app-preload',
  filePath: path.join(__dirname, 'preload.js'),
});

> ```

Reviewer: This section was already part of the v35 blog post. I'd remove it from the v36 post.

### Deprecated: `level`, `message`, `line`, and `sourceId` arguments in `console-message` event on `WebContents`

The `console-message` event on `WebContents` has been updated to provide details on the `Event`
argument.

```js
// Deprecated
webContents.on(
  'console-message',
  (event, level, message, line, sourceId) => {},
);

// Replace with:
webContents.on(
  'console-message',
  ({ level, message, lineNumber, sourceId, frame }) => {},
);

> ```

Reviewer: This section was already part of the v35 blog post. I'd remove it from the v36 post.

Additionally, `level` is now a string with possible values of `info`, `warning`, `error`, and `debug`.

### Behavior Changed: `urls` property of `WebRequestFilter`.

> Previously, an empty urls array was interpreted as including all URLs. To explicitly include all URLs, developers should now use the `<all_urls>` pattern, which is a [designated URL pattern](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/Match_patterns#all_urls) that matches every possible URL. This change clarifies the intent and ensures more predictable behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, an empty `urls` array was interpreted as including all URLs. To explicitly include all URLs, developers should now use the `<all_urls>` pattern, which is a [designated URL pattern](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/Match_patterns#all_urls) that matches every possible URL. This change clarifies the intent and ensures more predictable behavior.
```

Might also want to consider breaking this into multiple lines.

Author: removed this section as it was called out in the previous blog post

```js
// Deprecated
const deprecatedFilter = {
  urls: [],
};

// Replace with
const newFilter = {
  urls: ['<all_urls>'],
};

> ```

Reviewer: This section was already part of the v35 blog post. I'd remove it from the v36 post.

### Deprecated: `systemPreferences.isAeroGlassEnabled()`

The `systemPreferences.isAeroGlassEnabled()` function has been deprecated without replacement.
It has been always returning `true` since Electron 23, which only supports Windows 10+, where DWM composition can no longer be disabled.

> https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/dwm/composition-ovw#disabling-dwm-composition-windows7-and-earlier

Reviewer: Duplicated section.
